---
title: "offline bruteforce wps"
source: Redteam Kit
converted: 2026-06-29T14:07:39+03:00
type: redteam-reference
---

Offline bruteforce attack on
WiFi Protected Setup
Dominique Bongard
Founder
0xcite, Switzerland
@reversity
 Introduction to WPS
 WPS PIN External Registrar Protocol
 Online Bruteforce attack on WPS PIN
 Offline Bruteforce attack on WPS PIN
 Vendor reponses
 Bonus
  WARNING
This presentation may
contain illustrations by
    Ange Albertini
   Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) or Wi-Fi Simple Configuration (WSC)
   „A specification for easy, secure setup and introduction of devices into
    WPA2-enabled 802.11 networks"
   Offers several methods for In-Band or Out-of-Band device setup
   Severely broken protocol!
   The technical specification can be purchased online for $99
   Some old versions can be found floating on the net
 USB Flash Drive (Deprecated)
 Ethernet (Deprecated)
 Static PIN on device label
 Display
 NFC Token
 Push Button
 Keypad
 To register with WPS you don‘t need to know
 the PIN and press the WPS button

 You need to know the PIN OR press the WPS
 button
 Enrollee : A device seeking to join a WLAN domain

 Registrar : An entity with the authority to issue WLAN credentials

 External Registrar : A registrar that is separate from the AP

 AP : An infrastructure-mode 802.11 Access Point

 Headless Device : A device without a screen or display
 An Enrollee can be a station or an AP

 A Registrar can be a station (external registrar) or an AP

 A Registrar doesn‘t need to be in the WiFi network

 A WiFi network can have more than one WPS Registrar
 In the most common case, the Registrar is a station outside
  the WiFi network and the Enrollee is the AP, not the other way
  around.
WPS PIN External
Registrar Protocol
The recommended length for a manually entered device password is
an 8-digit numeric PIN. This length does not provide a large amount
of entropy for strong mutual authentication, but the design of the
Registration Protocol protects against dictionary attacks on PINs if a
fresh PIN or a rekeying key is used each time the Registration
Protocol is run.

If the Registrar runs the Protocol multiple times using the same PIN
an attacker will be able to discover the PIN through brute force. To
address this vulnerability, if a PIN authentication error occurs, the
Registrar SHALL warn the user and SHALL NOT automatically
reuse the PIN.

The [sticker] PIN contains approximately 23 bits of entropy… It is
susceptible to active attack.
PSK1   PSK2
  E -> R    M1            N1 || Description || PKE


 N1 is a 128-bit random nonce generated by the Enrollee
 PKE is the DH public key of the Enrollee
 Upon reception of M1 the Registrar generates PKR and N2

 The Registrar can then compute the DHKey:

            DHKey = SHA-256 (zeropad(gABmod p, 192))
 And calculate the Key Derivation Key :

       KDK = HMAC-SHA-256DHKey (N1 || EnrolleeMAC || N2)
 Finally AuthKey, KeyWrapKey, and EMSK are derived:

                AuthKey || KeyWrapKey || EMSK =
      kdf(KDK, “Wi-Fi Easy and Secure Key Derivation”, 640)
 AuthKey : used to authenticate the Registration Protocol
  messages (256 bits)
 KeyWrapKey : used to encrypt secret nonces and ConfigData
  (128 bits)
 EMSK : Extended Master Session Key that is used to derive
  additional keys (256 bits)
  R -> E    M2        N1 || N2 || Desc. || PKR || Auth


 N2 is a 128-bit random nonce generated by the Registrar
 PKR is the DH public key of the Registrar
 Auth = HMACAuthKey(M1 || M2)
  E -> R    M3                 E-Hash1 || E-Hash2
 E-Hash1 = HMACAuthKey(E-S1 || PSK1 || PKE || PKR)
 E-Hash2 = HMACAuthKey(E-S2 || PSK2 || PKE || PKR)
 PSK1 is made of the first 4 digits of the PIN
 PSK2 is made of the last 4 digits of the PIN
 E-S1 and E-S2 are two 128 bit random nonces
                           R-Hash1 || R-Hash2 ||
  R -> E   M4
                                EKwk(R-S1)

 R-Hash1 = HMACAuthKey(R-S1 || PSK1 || PKE || PKR)
 R-Hash2 = HMACAuthKey(R-S2 || PSK2 || PKE || PKR)
 R-S1 and R-S2 are two 128 bit random nonces
 The Enrollee decrypts R-S1
 The Enrollee verifies :


       HMACAuthKey(R-S1 || PSK1 || PKE || PKR) = R-Hash1



                               ?
 E -> R    M5                   Ekwk(E-S1)


 The Enrollee opens its first commitment
 The Registrar decrypts E-S1
 The Registrar verifies :


        HMACAuthKey(E-S1 || PSK1 || PKE || PKR) = E-Hash1



                              ?
 R -> E    M6                  EKwk(R-S2)


 The registrar opens its second commitment

    HMACAuthKey(R-S2 || PSK2 || PKE || PKR) = E-Hash2 ?
 E -> R   M7            Ekwk(E-S2 || Credentials)


 The Enrollee opens its second commitment and also sends
  the network credentials
WPS AP as Registrar
attack
 Why is the AP the Registrar resp. the Station the
  Enrollee and not the other way around?
 The WiFi Alliance probably found out that the
  protocol would otherwise be totally insecure in the
  scenario with Headless devices
  E -> R    M1            N1 || Description || PKE


 N1 is a 128-bit random nonce generated by the Enrollee
 PKE is the DH public key of the Enrollee
  R -> E    M2        N1 || N2 || Desc. || PKR || Auth


 N2 is a 128-bit random nonce generated by the Registrar
 PKR is the DH public key of the Registrar
 Auth = HMACAuthKey(M1 || M2)
 E -> R   M3         E-Hash1 || E-Hash2


 E-Hash1 = Random
 E-Hash2 = Random
                         R-Hash1 || R-Hash2 ||
 R -> E    M4
                              EKwk(R-S1)

 The Enrollee can decrypt R-S1 and then brute force PSK1
  with R-Hash1
 The Enrollee then restarts the protocol knowing PSK1
 E -> R    M5                    Ekwk(E-S1)


 In the second run of the protocol, the Enrollee can send valid
  values since it knows PSK1
  R -> E   M6                  EKwk(R-S2)


 The Enrollee can decrypt R-S2 and then brute force PSK2
  with R-Hash2
 The Enrollee then restarts the protocol one last time
  knowing both PSK1 and PSK2
WPS online
bruteforce attack
 Looks OK as long as there is only one try per PIN

 Proof of possession allows detection of rogue APs and
  stations
 The DH key exchange protects against eavesdropping
 Attack published in 2011 by Stefan Viehböck
 The idea is to bruteforce PSK1 and then PSK2
 Takes at most 11‘000 trials for sticker PIN
      At most 20‘000 trials for user selected PIN
 Finds the PIN in a few hours (depends on AP)
 Most AP implemented no security against BF
 Implemented in tools like Reaver and Bully
 Changes in the specification

2.0.2 Public release version
- Change    Headless Devices section to mandate
   implementation of strong mitigation against a
  brute force attack on the AP that uses a static PIN.

 Some devices have a WPS lockout delay
  This only slows down the attack a bit
 AP reboot scripts (mdk3, ReVdK3)
  EAPOL-Start flood attack
 Deauth DDoS
   The initial use case seems to be random PIN on display with one try
   The specification contains contradictory statements about PIN reuse
   The protocol looks secure enough if PINs are not reused


Conclusion:
   Headless devices with static PINs were probably a last minute addition to
    the specification
WPS offline
bruteforce attack
  E -> R    M1            N1 || Description || PKE


 N1 is a 128-bit random nonce generated by the Enrollee
 PKE is the DH public key of the Enrollee
 E -> R    M3                E-Hash1 || E-Hash2


 E-Hash1 = HMACAuthKey(E-S1 || PSK1 || PKE || PKR)
 E-Hash2 = HMACAuthKey(E-S2 || PSK2 || PKE || PKR)
 PSK1 is made of the first 4 digits of the PIN
 PSK2 is made of the last 4 digits of the PIN
 If we can find E-S1 and E-S2, we can the brute force
  PSK1 and PSK2 offline!
 Usually with pseudo-random generators (PRNG)
 Often insecure PRNG
  No or low entropy
  Small state (32 bits)
 Can the PRNG state be recovered ?
reg_proto_create_m1(RegData *regInfo, BufferObj *msg)
{
    uint32 ret = WPS_SUCCESS;
    uint8 message;

    DevInfo *enrollee = regInfo->enrollee;

    /* First generate/gather all the required data. */
    message = WPS_ID_MESSAGE_M1;

    /* Enrollee nonce */
    /*
     * Hacking, do not generate new random enrollee nonce
     * in case of we have prebuild enrollee nonce.
     */
    if (regInfo->e_lastMsgSent == MNONE) {
           RAND_bytes(regInfo->enrolleeNonce, SIZE_128_BITS);
    }
    /* It should not generate new key pair if we have prebuild enrollee nonce */
    if (!enrollee->DHSecret) {
           ret = reg_proto_generate_dhkeypair(&enrollee->DHSecret);
           if (ret != WPS_SUCCESS) {
                 return ret;
           }
    }
    ...
#if (defined(__ECOS) || defined(TARGETOS_nucleus) || defined(TARGETOS_symbian))

void generic_random(uint8 * random, int len)
{
  int tlen = len;
  while (tlen--) {
     *random = (uint8)rand();
     *random++;
  }
  return;
}

#endif
int rand_r( unsigned int *seed ) {

    unsigned int s=*seed;
    unsigned int uret;
    s = (s * 1103515245) + 12345; // permutate seed
    uret = s & 0xffe00000; // Only use top 11 bits

    s = (s * 1103515245) + 12345; // permutate seed
    uret += (s & 0xfffc0000) >> 11; // Only use top 14 bits

    s = (s * 1103515245) + 12345; // permutate seed
    uret += (s & 0xfe000000) >> (11+14); // Only use top 7 bits

    retval = (int)(uret & RAND_MAX);
    *seed = s;
    return retval;
}
 Linear Congruential Generator
  32 bits state
  No external entropy
  E-S1 and E-S2 generated right after N1
  Optimization: 7 bits of the seed can be deduced
   from the last output byte
 Do the WPS protocol up to message M3
 Get the Nonce from M1
  Bruteforce the state of the PRNG

 Compute E-S1 and E-S2 from the state
 Bruteforce PSK1 / PSK2 from E-Hash1 / E-Hash2
 Do the full WPS protocol to get the credentials
 32 bit Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR)




 Polynomial = 0x80000057
 Trivial to recover the LFSR state from the nonce
 E-S1 and E-S2 are never generated
 E-S1 = E-S2 = 0x0
 Some AP have the same state at each boot
 Make a list of common states after reboot
 Attack the AP right after boot
 As shown, there are many ways to force a reboot
 Looks okay
 Uses /dev/random
 Used in Atheros SDK
 But you never know
  Several papers attack the entropy of the linux PRNG
   in embedded systems
 Marvell
 Realtek
 Intel
 Qualcomm
 ...
 It‘s complicated

 Many of the implementations are the reference code
  for the chipset
  Only the GUI is reskinned

  Therefore many brands are affected

 Many vendors use different chipset
Vendor responses
 Tried to find a security incident contact

 Tried to contact them on Twitter

 Tried to contact them through their website
Dominique Bongard discovered that Broadcom chips are
affected. Their random number generators apparently are so
easy to guess that an attacker can get your Wi-Fi access point to
give up its PIN code in less than a second.

-----------------------------------

This is the first we have heard of this. We’ll connect with your
security team.
Karen
Thanks for checking. This is not a chip issue. The issue you
have identified can affect any Wi-Fi product.

Vulnerabilities can depend on the Wi-Fi standard that is
chosen for security. This may depend on the age of the
product.

Best regards,

Jennifer B.| Senior Manager, Corporate Communications
We do use the Broadcom chipset in some of our offerings, and
we're reaching out to Broadcom as we speak, to find out if any of
the ones we use are affected by this issue.

[...] Also, for your information - Cisco has a very limited number
of wireless products with support for WPS. Most of them are Small
and Medium business products, while others are sold to Service
Providers (not to end users) to be used as cable modem CPEs.
And some of those CPEs have wireless capabilities, and some
support WPS. We'll investigate them all, make our results public
by following our security policy.
 Tried to contact them via their website
Thanks, Dominique. This is very helpful.

In the future, I encourage you to report any Wi-Fi-related vulnerabilities
directly to us. Wi-Fi Alliance reviews all submitted reports of security
vulnerabilities affecting Wi-Fi CERTIFIED programs. You can submit
vulnerabilities to secure@wi-fi.org or at https://www.wi-fi.org/secure .

Thanks again.

Regards,

Kevin R. | Director of Program Marketing | Wi-Fi Alliance
WPS static pin
generation attack
PIN values should be randomly generated, and they
SHALL NOT be derivable from any information that can
be obtained by an eavesdropper or active attacker. The
device’s serial number and MAC address, for example,
are easily eavesdropped by an attacker on the in-band
channel.
Arris        http://packetstormsecurity.com/files/123631/ARRIS-DG860A-WPS-PIN-Generator.html




Belkin       http://ednolo.alumnos.upv.es/?p=1295




Other        http://www.hackforums.net/printthread.php?tid=4146055


…*           Tenda, Sitecom, Linksys, FTE, Vodafone, ZTE, Zyxel




          http://www.crack-wifi.com/forum/topic-8793-wpspin-
 generateur-pin-wps-par-defaut-routeurs-huawei-belkin.html
Conclusion
 Disable WPS now !
 Reverse engineers: Check other AP for bad PRNG
 Cryptographers: Check if good PRNG are okay
